Docs/gitpod (#159)
r-devel/r-dev-env: docs/container_setup/gitpodstart_stop.md

### Starting a Gitpod Workspace

> 1. **Sign Up / Log In:**
> Visit [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/) and sign up for an account if you don't have one, or log in if you do.
> 
> 2. **Connect Your Git Provider:**
> Connect Gitpod to your GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket account by authorizing access. This allows Gitpod to create workspaces from your repositories.

Reviewer: I think we can direct people straight to the OAuth login as they are not going to sign up without knowing more about it first and if they already have an enterprise account, they should know about it!

```suggestion
1. **Log In:**
Go to the [Gitpod login page](https://gitpod.io/login/) and sign in with your GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket account. This allows Gitpod to create workspaces from your repositories.
```

(renumber later bullet points)

![start gitpod workspace](../assets/gitpod1.png)     
4. **Create a New Workspace:**
In the Gitpod dashboard, click on the "Continue" button. You can change the resource option from standard to large. After clicking continue, it will take approximately 15-20 minutes to create the workspace for the first time. It will cache the environment for faster startup in the future.

!!!Note
     Changing the resource option will reduce the free monthly Gitpod usage, which is 50 hours per month.

### Stopping a Gitpod Workspace

1. **Locate the Gitpod Command Palette Button:**
To stop the current workspace, look for the orange Gitpod command palette button in the bottom left corner of the workspace.

![stop gitpod workspace](../assets/gitpod2.png)   
2. **Open the Command Palette and Stop the Workspace:**
After clicking on the Gitpod command palette button, a pop-up will appear from the top of the screen. Select the Gitpod: Stop Workspace option to stop the current workspace.

![stop gitpod workspace](../assets/gitpod3.png)

!!!Note

>     Stopping a workspace will save its state, so you can resume later without losing your progress. However, keep in mind that stopped workspaces still count towards your monthly usage quota.

Reviewer: Can confirm, once a workspace is stopped or timed out, the clock is stopped and your usage is based only for the time the workspace was running.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0c2b1288-20a5-44a8-869e-bb298ed4ff5e)

This screenshot was taken at 15:34 , ~80 minutes after I first started the workspace, but only ~40 minutes have been used. So you can delete the second sentence in the note.

> 

Reviewer: GitHub Codespaces has a similar issue: https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/setting-your-user-preferences/configuring-automatic-deletion-of-your-codespaces#avoiding-automatic-deletion-of-codespaces - we may as well add that to this PR given you will need to reorganize the GitHub Codespace docs already.
